On December 23, 2013, at approximately 1615 central standard time a Boeing 737-344, registration number N360SW, operated by SWA as flight 1091, and powered by two CFM56-3 turbofan engines, experienced a bird strike and ingestion on the No. 2 or right-hand engine (RHE) after takeoff from Lambert-St. Louis International Airport (STL), Missouri. As the airplane climbed through 1,700 feet, it impacted multiple birds causing damage to the RHE and wing. The pilot declared an emergency and returned to STL for an uneventful landing. There were no injuries reported to the 110 passengers, 2 flight crew and 3 flight attendants. The incident flight was a 14 CFR Part 121 domestic passenger flight from STL to Kansas City International Airport, Kansas City, Missouri (MCI). Day visual meteorological conditions prevailed at the time and an instrument flight rules flight plan was filed.

Examination of the airplane revealed no damage to the fuselage. Examination of the engine revealed no penetration or breaches of the cases; however, the fan case exhibited several bulges that corresponded to hard impacts and missing fan blade rub strip material exposing the parent material below. 

Examination of the RHE revealed that all the fan blades were extensively damaged exhibiting hard-body impact damage with significant material loss along the length of the leading edge.  Two adjacent fan blades were fractured transversely across the airfoil near the one-third span, and exhibited leading edge soft-body impact damage. The remains of the two birds were identified as one male and one female mallard duck. The average weight of the male mallard is 1246 grams or 2.75 pounds; the average weight of the female mallard is 1095 grams or 2.4 pounds.

Comparing the airplane and engine damage to the requirements for bird ingestion and engine debris containment at the time the engine and airplane were both certificated revealed that the engine complied with the bird ingestion and containment requirements set forth in Parts 33.77 and 33.19 and the airplane complied with the containment requirements set forth in Parts 25.903.